Hello this is Carol and welcome back to the course and Tablo.
And today we will get to start solving the problem that we have at hand who gets a bonus.
So we're left off here last time we're just playing it out of Tablo.
I hope you had a chance to explore further the different buttons and tools the table has to offer because
the more you play around with it the better you get at it.
And it happens very quickly because Tablo is very very intuitive and that's just we're talking just
about the navigation.
So you know basically where to look for what Rhyno I'll share.
Another cool feature is clear the dashboard so we don't want any of this.
And so there's a button over here.
The red one clear sheet.
And so we're just going to click that and voila everything is gone.
By the way if you're using the Mac or a Mac book some of these layouts might be a bit different.
So just kind of follow along and you will be able to find where they are.
But just bear in mind that there might not be in the same exact place as I'm showing.
OK so let's start answering the question.
We know that we can create Bartsch does this create a bar chart for their representatives and see what
they've sold.
So we want representatives to be kind of in the columns.
So there they are our salespeople and let's see how many units each one of these are present.
So has sold.
There we go.
So we can see that Richard has sold the most units which is great.
And how about we break it down by region.
So we know that we have three bonus's one for every single one of 1 for the best representative in each
region.
And like this we can't really tell who's the best in each of the regions we can just tell who's the
best overall.
So what we're going to do is we're going to take region and we're going to drag it into columns but
we're going to put it before representative.
So as you can see I'm doing here and I'm just going to let go and what does that do.
Well it gives us a kind of another level on top of our presenter.
So first the chart is broken down by regions so that you can see that here I'm just going to make this
a bit smaller so I can zoom in.
So here you can see that the chart is broken down central east and west and then inside every region
is broken down into by Representative.
And so that way we can easily tell who's the best in sales in each of the regions.
So here it's Alex here it's Richard here's James.
And so now share another co-feature.
You can order these bars by their size so if you see this little one here so if you come roll over the
axis this is little bun here so if you click that automatically they're sorted by size you can see how
it drops off.
And you'd think that this answers our question but in reality no it doesn't because units is actually
the number of items that has been sold.
But as we know our representatives are actually measured based on the dollar value of their sales.
And so we need to find out the dollar value.
But as you can see here there's no actual dollar value.
Total dollar value of sales we know that.
And it's really really easy to find it to see that because all of our numbers are kept in measures so
we don't even have to look here.
We can see here that we only have units and we only have unit price and we have some of these other
fields which we will talk about further down the course.
But like the ones from our daughter our units and unit price and there's no total dollar value and that
means that we have to create that total dollar value.
How do we do that.
Well it's quite easy you just have to multiply the number of units that are present and have her presented
if had sold by the total unit price for those units.
So if I click our daughter here and go to view data you can see here that when for instance Nick sold
binders he's sold 29 binders at the price of one dollar and 99 cents each.
So the total revenue from that sale will be 29 times one dog ninety nine dollars making it somewhere
around $50 for that sale.
So we need to calculate that multiplied value.
And apparently it's not present in our database or in our data set.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Do this in Tablo.
And this is where we talk about creating a calculated field.
So you have to do is right click on measures create calculated field and we'll call it total sales.
And here we will call.
We will take unit price or units and we will multiply units by unit price it will click OK.
So now we have a total sales value.
And as you can see there's a little equal sign before the hashtag that means it's a calculated field.
So what we're going to do now is we're going to take total sales and we will drag it onto a chair to
replace the units.
So I'll just drag it exactly on top and as you can see table picks it up and aggregates it just as it
did with units.
The other way to do it is you can take this one off remove it and then take total cells and put it on
where you need to be.
And so now we have some total sales.
And now if we order by this value you will see that we have a different picture.
Now Richard is no longer the best seller overall.
Susan beat him in the East region.
Mathews the best in the central region and James James is still the best in the West.
So now we know who has to serve the bonuses.
Matthew Susan and James.
And that was an example of how to create a calculated field in Tablo.
Hope you enjoyed that.
And I look forward to see you next time when we will be talking about colors.
Until then happy analyzing.